Add "running a seed node" section (#13)
radicle-dev/radicle-docs: docs/using-radicle/running-a-seed-node.md

title: Running a seed node
---

To improve data availability, participants in the network can choose to act as
seeds. This is similar in concept to a pub in Secure Scuttlebutt: seeds are
always-on nodes that automatically track discovered projects, thereby
increasing the availability of these projects on the network.

> To set up your own seed node follow the [instructions][seed] in the

Reviewer: Is there a reason we link through instead of having it rewritten here? I think it would be nice to have the commands laid on it the GitHub repo shown in the docs, instead of linking someone away.

@rudolfs @xla ?

Author: The only reason I did it this way, was to keep the docs up-to-date. If we have the same info in 2 places it'll go out of sync very fast.

I could write a more detailed version on how to set it up here, complete with example outputs of the commands. So users can more easily debug if something goes wrong.

Author: Added a more extended explanation.

title: Running a seed node
---

To improve data availability, participants in the network can choose to act as
seeds. This is similar in concept to a pub in Secure Scuttlebutt: seeds are
always-on nodes that automatically track discovered projects, thereby
increasing the availability of these projects on the network.

To build and run a seed node, you'll have to install some prerequisites on your
machine first:

  - [Rust toolchain][rust]
  - [yarn][yarn]

Next, clone and set up the `radicle-bins` repository:

    git clone https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-bins.git
    cd radicle-bins/seed

Install UI depependencies and build the UI:

    (cd ui && yarn && yarn build)

Then you'll have to generate a private key:

>     mkdir -p ~/.radicle-seed

Author: https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-docs/pull/13/commits/fb04d68c61272fae8d827d6b043f24deb6a74fa5

    cargo run -p radicle-keyutil -- --filename ~/.radicle-seed/secret.key

In order for users to connect to the seed node from the internet, you'll have
to allow incomming connections for the following ports:

  - `UDP:12345`  - for peer data exchange
  - `TCP:80`     - for the seed node UI

For this example, let's assume that we have the public IP address `1.2.3.4` at
our disposal and that our router is set up to forward the ports UDP:12345 and
TCP:80 to the machine where the seed node will be running.

While not strictly necessary, it's nice to have a domain name set up for the
public IP address as well. For this example, we'll use this record:
`myseed.myorg.com. A 1.2.3.4`.

Now you're ready to start the seed node. Let's configure it to listen to ports
12345 and 80 on all interfaces, the private key is supplied via `STDIN`:

>     cargo run --bin radicle-seed-node -- \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    cargo run -p radicle-seed-node --release -- \
```

      --root ~/.radicle-seed \
      --peer-listen 0.0.0.0:12345 \
      --http-listen 0.0.0.0:80 \
      --name "seedling" \
      --public-addr "myseed.myorg.com:12345" \
      < ~/.radicle-seed/secret.key

> We supplied the `--public-addr` option so the UI can generate a shareable seed
> node address, more on that below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We supplied the `--public-addr` option so the UI can show the seed address,
more on that below.
```

<details>
  <summary>This is what you'll see in the terminal when starting the seed node:</summary>

    $ cargo run --bin radicle-seed-node -- \
      --root ~/.radicle-seed \
      --peer-listen 0.0.0.0:12345 \
      --http-listen 0.0.0.0:80 \
      --name "seedling" \
      --public-addr "myseed.myorg.com:12345" \
      < ~/.radicle-seed/secret.key

>         Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.39s

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Finished dev [optimized] target(s) in 0.39s
```

         Running `/Users/rudolfs/work/radicle-bins/target/debug/radicle-seed-node --root /Users/rudolfs/.radicle-seed --peer-listen '0.0.0.0:12345' --http-listen '0.0.0.0:80' --name seedling --public-addr 'myseed.myorg.com:12345'`
    Nov 10 16:48:11.006  INFO radicle_seed: Initializing tracker to track everything..
    Nov 10 16:48:11.006  INFO Protocol::run{local.id=hybecxsmx5t11emgg9mqkggihp5d7rd66tyuubaruiyym5f458fs1s local.addr=0.0.0.0:12345}: librad::net::protocol: Listening
    Nov 10 16:48:11.011  INFO Server::run{addr=V4(0.0.0.0:80)}: warp::server: listening on http://0.0.0.0:80
    Nov 10 16:48:11.012  INFO radicle_seed_node::frontend: Listening(V4(0.0.0.0:12345))
</details>

> Now point your browser http://127.0.0.1. This is the seed node dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now point your browser http://seed.my.org. This is the seed node dashboard.
```

![Seed node UI](/img/seed-node-ui.png)

> For Upstream clients to connect to your new seed node, you'll need a shareable
> seed node address. This address can be found in the UI under the seed node
> name. In our example the address is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Upstream clients to connect to your new seed, you'll need to share the
seed address. This address can be found in the UI under the name of the
seed. In our example the address is:
```

>     hybecxsmx5t11emgg9mqkggihp5d7rd66tyuubaruiyym5f458fs1s@myseed.myorg.com:12345

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    hybecxsmx5t11emgg9mqkggihp5d7rd66tyuubaruiyym5f458fs1s@seed.my.org:12345
```

Have a look at the [Adding a seed node to Upstream](getting-started/getting-started.md#adding-a-seed-node-to-upstream)

> section for more information on how to set up the new seed node in Upstream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
section for more information on how to set up the new seed in Upstream.
```

title: Running a seed node
---

To improve data availability, participants in the network can choose to act as
seeds. This is similar in concept to a pub in Secure Scuttlebutt: seeds are
always-on nodes that automatically track discovered projects, thereby
increasing the availability of these projects on the network.

To build and run a seed node, you'll have to install some prerequisites on your
machine first:

  - [Rust toolchain][rust]
  - [yarn][yarn]

Next, clone and set up the `radicle-bins` repository:

    git clone https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-bins.git
    cd radicle-bins

>     git submodule update --init --recursive

Author: This won't be needed anymore.

Author: https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-docs/pull/13/commits/be4397dd8de5f2250f810701920bb4277d307577

    cd seed

Install UI depependencies and build the UI:

    (cd ui && yarn && yarn build)

Then you'll have to generate a private key:

    mkdir -p ~/.radicle-seed
    cargo run -p radicle-keyutil -- --filename ~/.radicle-seed/secret.key

In order for users to connect to the seed node from the internet, you'll have
to allow incomming connections for the following ports:

  - `UDP:12345`  - for peer data exchange
  - `TCP:80`     - for the seed node UI

> For this exampple let's assume that we have the public IP address `1.2.3.4` at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, let's assume that we have the public IP address `1.2.3.4` at
```

our disposal and that our router is set up to forward the ports UDP:12345 and
TCP:80 to the machine where the seed node will be running.

While not strictly necessary, it's nice to have a domain name set up for the

> public IP address as well. For our example we'll use this record:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public IP address as well. For this example, we'll use this record:
```
